{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset129 \'b8\'bc\'c0\'ba \'b0\'ed\'b5\'f1;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl276\slmult1\lang18\b\f0\fs20 1. What is MySQL? \b0\par
MySQL is an open source DBMS which is built, supported and distributed by MySQL AB (now acquired by Oracle)\par
\par
\b 2. What is "mysqld"?\b0\par
Mysqld is a daemon server program typically used to start and stop mysql server. It runs in the background\par
Here\rquote s how mysqld can be invoked:\par
>cd \\mysql\\bin\par
>mysqld --console\par
Following are the options provided:\par
1. --help \endash  Displays the help message.\par
2. --version \endash  returns the version.\par
3. --log=filename- Specifies server to write log files to filename.\par
4. --log-error=filename- Specifies server to write error log files to filename.\par
\par
\b 2. MySQL backup and restore? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 backup: # mysqldump -u root -p[root_password] [database_name] > dumpfilename.sql\par
restore:# mysql -u root -p[root_password] [database_name] < dumpfilename.sql\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 3. Why MySQL is used?\b0\par
MySQL database server is reliable, fast and very easy to use.  This software can be downloaded as freeware and can be downloaded from the internet.\par
\par
\b 4. What are Heap tables?\b0\par
HEAP tables are present in memory and they are used for high speed storage on temporary basis.\par
\par
\bullet  BLOB or TEXT fields are not allowed\par
\bullet  Only comparison operators can be used =, <,>, = >,=<\par
\bullet  AUTO_INCREMENT is not supported by HEAP tables\par
\bullet  Indexes should be NOT NULL\par
\b\par
5. What is the default port for MySQL Server?\b0\par
\tab The default port for MySQL server is 3306.\par
\par
\b 6.  What are the advantages of MySQL when compared with Oracle? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 MySQL is open source software which is available at any time and has no cost involved.\par
MySQL is portable\par
GUI with command prompt.\par
Administration is supported using MySQL Query Browser\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 7. Differentiate between FLOAT and DOUBLE? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\bullet  Floating point numbers are stored in FLOAT with 8 place accuracy and it has 4 bytes.\par
\bullet  Floating point numbers are stored in DOUBLE with accuracy of 18 places and it has 8 bytes.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b  8. Differentiate CHAR_LENGTH and LENGTH?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 CHAR_LENGTH  is character count whereas the LENGTH is byte count. The numbers are same for Latin characters but they are different for Unicode and other encodings.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 9. How to represent ENUMs and SETs internally? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 ENUMs and SETs are used to represent powers of two 2^2 because of storage optimizations.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 10. What is the usage of ENUMs in MySQL?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 ENUM is a string object used to specify set of predefined values and that can be used during table creation.\par
Create table size(name ENUM('Small', 'Medium','Large');\par
Create table size(name ENUM('Small', 'Medium','Large');\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1  \par
\b 11. Define REGEXP? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 REGEXP is a pattern match in which matches pattern anywhere in the search value.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 12. Difference between CHAR and VARCHAR? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 CHAR(fixed length <= 50% Faster) differ in \ul storage and retrieval\ulnone\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 Used to store character string value of fixed length.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The maximum no. of characters the data type can hold is 255 characters.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}It's 50% faster than VARCHAR.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Uses static memory allocation.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\tab VARCHAR(variable-length) types differ in \ul storage and retrieval\ulnone\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1 Used to store variable length alphanumeric data.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The maximum this data type can hold is up to\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 Pre-MySQL 5.0.3: 255 characters.\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}In MySQL 5.0.3+: 65,535 characters shared for the row.\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1 It's slower than CHAR.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Uses dynamic memory allocation.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1  \par
\b 13. Give string types available for column?\b0\par
\tab SET, BLOB, ENUM, CHAR, TEXT, VARCHAR\par
\par
\b 14. How to get current MySQL version?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 $ mysql -v or \par
$ mysql -u root -p  # check after login scrren\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b  15. What storage engines are used in MySQL? \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 MYISAM <5.5 < InnoDB Storage engines are called table types and data is stored in files using various techniques.  Storage mechanism, Locking levels, Indexing, Capabilities and functions.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 16. What are the drivers in MySQL?\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 PHP Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}JDBC Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ODBC Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}C WRAPPER\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PYTHON Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PERL Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}RUBY Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}CAP11PHP Driver\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Ado.net5.mxj\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 17. What does a TIMESTAMP do on UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP data type?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 TIMESTAMP column is updated with Zero when the table is created.  UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP modifier updates the timestamp field to  current time whenever there is a change in other fields of the table.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 18. What is the difference between primary key and candidate key?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Every row of a table is identified uniquely by primary key. There is only one primary key for a table.\par
Primary Key is also a candidate key. By common convention, candidate key can be designated as primary and which can be used for any foreign key references.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 19. How do you login to MySql using Unix shell?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 $ mysql -u root -p\par
$ /bin/mysql -u <UserName> -p <password> -h hostname(or IP) \par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 20. What does myisamchk do?\par
\tab Repair Corrupted MySQL Tables\b0\par
\par
\b 21. How do you control the max size of a HEAP table?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1  MySQL config variable called max_heap_table_size.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 22. What is the difference between MyISAM Static and MyISAM Dynamic?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 In MyISAM static all the fields will have fixed width. The Dynamic MyISAM table will have fields like TEXT, BLOB, etc. to accommodate the data types with various lengths. faster.\par
MyISAM Static would be easier to restore in case of corruption.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\b 23. What are federated tables?\b0\par
Federated tables which allow access to the tables located on other databases on other servers.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 24. What, if a table has one column defined as TIMESTAMP?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Timestamp field gets the current timestamp whenever the row gets altered.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 25. What happens when the column is set to AUTO INCREMENT and if you reach maximum value in the table?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\ul It stops incrementing\ulnone . Any further inserts are going to produce an error, since the key has been used already.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 26. How can we find out which auto increment was assigned on Last insert?\b0\par
LAST_INSERT_ID will return the last value assigned by Auto_increment and it is not required to specify the table name.\par
\par
\b 27. How can you see all indexes defined for a table?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Indexes are defined for the table by:\par
SHOW INDEX FROM <tablename>;\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 28. What do you mean by % and _ in the LIKE statement?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 % corresponds to 0 or more characters, _ is exactly one character in the LIKE statement.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 29. How can we convert between Unix & MySQL timestamps?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 UNIX_TIMESTAMP is the command which converts from MySQL timestamp to Unix timestamp\par
FROM_UNIXTIME is the command which converts from Unix timestamp to MySQL timestamp.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
30. What are the column comparisons operators?\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 The = , <>, <=, <, >=, >,<<,>>, <=>, AND, OR, or LIKE operators are used in column comparisons in SELECT statements.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b  31. How can we get the number of rows affected by query?\b0\par
Number of rows can be obtained by\par
SELECT COUNT (user_id) FROM users;\par
SELECT COUNT (user_id) FROM users;\par
\b\par
32.  Is Mysql query is case sensitive?\b0\par
No.\par
SELECT VERSION(), CURRENT_DATE;\par
SeLect version(), current_date;\par
seleCt vErSiOn(), current_DATE;\par
\par
\par
\b 33. What is the difference between the LIKE and REGEXP operators?  \b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 LIKE and REGEXP operators are used to express with ^ and %.\par
SELECT * FROM employee WHERE emp_name REGEXP "^b";\par
SELECT * FROM employee WHERE emp_name LIKE "%b";\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 34. What is the difference between BLOB AND TEXT?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 A BLOB is a binary large object(pictures) that can hold a variable amount of data. There are four types of BLOB \endash\par
TINYBLOB\par
BLOB\par
MEDIUMBLOB and\par
LONGBLOB\par
They all differ only in the maximum length of the values they can hold.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 A TEXT is a case-insensitive BLOB. The four TEXT types\par
TINYTEXT\par
TEXT\par
MEDIUMTEXT and\par
LONGTEXT\par
They all correspond to the four BLOB types and have the same maximum lengths and storage requirements.\par
The only difference between BLOB and TEXT types is that sorting and comparison is performed in case-sensitive for BLOB values and case-insensitive for TEXT values.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 35. What is the difference between mysql_fetch_array and mysql_fetch_object?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Following are the differences between mysql_fetch_array and mysql_fetch_object:\par
mysql_fetch_array() -Returns a result row as an associated array or a regular array from database.\par
mysql_fetch_object \endash   Returns a result row as object from database.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 36. How can we run batch mode in mysql\b0 ?\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Following commands are used to run in batch mode:\par
mysql ;\par
mysql mysql.out\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
 \par
\b 37. Where MyISAM table will be stored and also give their formats of storage?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Each MyISAM table is stored on disk in three formats:\par
The \lquote .frm\rquote  file stores the table definition\par
The data file has a \lquote .MYD\rquote  (MYData) extension\par
The index file has a \lquote .MYI\rquote  (MYIndex) extension\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
38. What are the different tables present in MySQL?\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Total 5 types of tables are present:\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 MyISAM\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Heap\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Merge\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}INNO DB\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ISAM\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 MyISAM is the default storage engine as of MySQL <5.5< InnoDB.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 39. What is ISAM?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 ISAM  is abbreviated as Indexed Sequential Access Method.  It was developed by IBM to store and retrieve data on secondary storage systems like tapes.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
 \b 40. What is InnoDB?\b0\par
lnnoDB is a transaction safe storage engine( developed by Innobase Oy which is a Oracle Corporation now.)\par
\par
\b 41. How MySQL Optimizes DISTINCT?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 DISTINCT is converted to a GROUP BY on all columns and it will be combined with ORDER BY clause.\par
SELECT DISTINCT t1.a FROM t1,t2 where t1.a=t2.a;\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 42. How to enter Characters as HEX Numbers?\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\b0 If you want to enter characters as HEX numbers, you can enter HEX numbers with single quotes and a prefix of (X), or just prefix HEX numbers with (Ox).\par
A HEX number string will be automatically converted into a character string, if the expression context is a string.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 43. How to display top 50 rows?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 SELECT * FROM\par
LIMIT 0,50;\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1  \par
\b 44. How many columns can be used for creating Index?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 Maximum of 16 indexed columns can be created for any standard table.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 45. What is the different between NOW() and CURRENT_DATE()?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 NOW () command is used to show current year,month,date with hours,minutes and seconds.\par
CURRENT_DATE() shows current year,month and date only.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 46. What are the objects can be created using CREATE statement?\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 DATABASE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}EVENT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}FUNCTION\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}INDEX\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PROCEDURE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}TABLE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}TRIGGER\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}USER\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}VIEW\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b 47. How many TRIGGERS are allowed in MySql table?\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 BEFORE INSERT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}AFTER INSERT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}BEFORE UPDATE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}AFTER UPDATE\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}BEFORE DELETE and\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}AFTER DELETE\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 48. What are the nonstandard string types?\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 TINYTEXT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}TEXT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MEDIUMTEXT\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}LONGTEXT\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 49. What are all the Common SQL Function?\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 CONCAT(A, B) \endash  Concatenates two string values to create a single string output. Often used to combine two or more fields into one single field.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}FORMAT(X, D) \endash  Formats the number X to D significant digits.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}CURRDATE(), CURRTIME() \endash  Returns the current date or time.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}NOW() \endash  Returns the current date and time as one value.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MONTH(), DAY(), YEAR(), WEEK(), WEEKDAY() \endash  Extracts the given data from a date value.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}HOUR(), MINUTE(), SECOND() \endash  Extracts the given data from a time value.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DATEDIFF(A, B) \endash  Determines the difference between two dates and it is commonly used to calculate age\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SUBTIMES(A, B) \endash  Determines the difference between two times.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}FROMDAYS(INT) \endash  Converts an integer number of days into a date value.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 50. Explain Access Control Lists.\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 An ACL (Access Control List) is a list of permissions that is associated with an object. This list is the basis for MySQL server\rquote s security model and it helps in troubleshooting problems like users not being able to connect.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MySQL keeps the ACLs (also called grant tables) cached in memory. When a user tries to authenticate or run a command, MySQL checks the authentication information and permissions against the ACLs, in a predetermined order.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\b 68. What is difference between mysql_connect and mysql_pconnect?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\b Mysql_connect()\b0  opens a new connection to the database while \b mysql_pconnect() \b0 opens a persistent connection to the database. This means that each time the page is loaded mysql_pconnect() does not open the database. Mysql_close() cannot be used to close the persistent connection. Though it can be used to close mysql_connect().\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 69. What is MySQL data directory? How to determine the location of the data directory?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 MySQL stores its data on the disk on the data dictionary. Each subdirectory under this data dictionary represents a MySQL database, inside those directories. By default the information managed my MySQL = server mysqld is stored in data directory.  A default location of data directory in /var/lib/mysql\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 70. What you can use Regular Expression for in MySQL? Support your answer with an example.\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1  * Matches 0 more instances of the string preceding it.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} + matches 1 more instances of the string preceding it.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} ? Matches 0 or 1instances of the string preceding it.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} . Matches a single character.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} [abc] matches a or b or z\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} | separates strings\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} ^ anchors the match from the start.\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\par
REGEXP can be used to match the input characters with the database.\par
Example:\par
The following statement retrieves all rows where column employee_name contains the text 1000 (example salary):\par
Select employee_name\par
From employee\par
Where employee_name REGEXP \lquote 1000\rquote\par
Order by employee_name\par
\par
\ldblquote .\rdblquote  Can be used to match any single character. \ldblquote |\rdblquote  can be used to match either of the two strings\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 71. How will you export tables as an XML file in MySQL\b0 ?\par
\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 mysql -u test --xml -e 'SELECT * FROM t1' > t1.xml\par
where \lquote\endash u test\lquote  is the user name, --xml indicates the type of the file is xml, -e for export\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 72. What is the use of i-am-a-dummy flag in MySQL?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 The flag i-am-a-dummy flag makes the MySQL engine to deny the UPDATE and DELETE commands unless the WHERE clause is present.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b 73. What are the differences between MySQL_fetch_array(), MySQL_fetch_object(), MySQL_fetch_row()?\b0\par
\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 The mysql_fetch_object() returns the result from the database as an \ul object.\par
\ulnone Ex: $result->name\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 The mysql_fetch_array() returns the result from the database as an associative array or numeric array or both by using mysql_NUM or mysql_ASSOC options.\par
EX: $result[0] ,$result['name']\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 The mysql_fetch_row() returns the result from the database as a \ul numeric array\ulnone .\par
Ex: $result[0]\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b\par
75. What is MySQL data directory? How to determine the location of the data directory?\par
\b0\tab can be changed in /etc/mysql/my.cnf file\par
\tab datadir =/var/lib/mysql\par
\par
76. What are the steps required to view your MYSQL database?\par
\tab $mysql -u mysqluser -p sales\par
\tab mysql> show databases;\par
\par
To view the database table structure describe command is used that provides the list of all the data fields used in the database table. \par
\par
A table named sales will have the four fields like: name, description, num and date.\par
\par
mysql > describe test;\par
| Field | Type | Null | Key | Default | Extra|\par
| num | int(11)| |PRI | NULL | auto_increment |\par
| date | date| | MUL | 0000-00-00 |\par
| name | varchar(50) | MUL |\par
| description | varchar(75) | YES | | NULL\par
Write a command to view the content of the table\par
\par
To view all the data that is contained inside a table named sales use the select command. For example: to see the data of first row in a table using the command as:\par
mysql > select * from sales limit 1;\par
\par
If the database is created recently then it will give a blank listing, but after the data is being entered it will show the full listing in a tabular form.\par
\par
\b What is the procedure to configure the application of MYSQL?\b0\par
1. First create a database, schema setup, tables setup, value setup,\par
2. Test the database by informing about the database name, IP address of database client server, username and password of application.\par
3. Edit the special application specific configuration file using a GUI or command line.\par
4. Configure the language with which MySQL will interact.\par
\par
\b What are the applications required to support MYSQL?\b0\par
1. php-mysql MySQL database is used specifically to support PHP\par
2. perl-DBI : provides generic Perl interface for interacting with relational databases\par
3. perl-DBD-MySQL database specific support for Perl\par
4. Web server is required to configure the database and its configuration\par
5. Programming language is required which supports MySQL.\par
\par
\b Write a query to stop MYSQL in unix\par
\b0 The query to stop MySQL is quite useful when an error is occurred or when data has to be saved from any mishap. It is also used for retrieving the root password because it is either easily forgotten or misplaced. To stop the service the following command is required:\par
$ service mysqld stop\par
Stopping MySQL: [ OK ]\par
Write a query to MYSQL in safe mode and to change the root password\par
\par
To start MySQL in safe mode, mysqld_safe command is used which allow it to run in the safe mode and it also doesn\rquote t allow the reading of tables with the database passwords:\par
[root@ ]# mysqld_safe --skip-grant-tables --skip-networking &[1] 13007\par
[root@ ]# Starting mysqld daemon with databases from /var/lib/mysql\par
\par
\par
After running the MySQL in safe mode the password protection gets removed and to use the password protection mechanism a command is used as follows:\par
mysql -u root command\par
[root@bigboy tmp]# mysql -u root\par
\par
Welcome to the MySQL monitor. Commands end with ; or \\g.\par
Your MySQL connection id is 1 to server version: 4.1.16\par
Type 'help;' or '\\h' for help. Type '\\c' to clear the buffer.\par
mysql> [ a message is being shown which allow user to take the control of the root]\par
How to take MYSQL database backup?\par
\par
To take the database backup use the following syntax:\par
mysqldump --add-drop-table -u [username] -p[password] [database] > [backup_file]\par
\par
This command will take the database backup by knowing the username and password for the database connection and dropping any table which is being deleted or not in use. It is always a good practice to take the backup of mysql as it contains all the database information that a user can access. While using the command keep a note that there should not be any space between \endash p switch and password, if there is then you will get a syntax error.\par
Write a command with which MySQL table can be repaired\par
\par
The command syntax with which mysql table can be repaired is as follows:\par
REPAIR TABLE tablename;\par
REPAIR TABLE tablename QUICK;\par
REPAIR TABLE tablename EXTENDED;\par
\par
The command will just do as it says repair a specified table, but if QUICK or EXTENDED is used then the meaning of it changes. In case of QUICK it will repair only the index tree, whereas in case of EXTENDED it will create index row by row and repair it.\par
What are the different tables present in MySQL?\par
\par
There are many tables that remain present by default. But, MyISAM is the default database engine used in MySQL. There are five types of tables that are present:\par
\par
1. MyISAM\par
2. Heap\par
3. Merge\par
4. INNO DB\par
5. ISAM\par
What does the file with the extension: frm, myd, and myi contain?\par
\par
MySQL default table type is MyISAM, where there are three kind of files that are stored inside MyISAM. The file names begin with the table name and have the extensions such as frm, myd and myi. The explanation of each file is given below:\par
\par
.frm file consists of the table definition that are stored in the database\par
.myd is an extension that is used by a data file.\par
.myi is an extension that is used by index file.\par
What is the difference between MYSQL and SQL?\par
\par
- SQL is known as standard query language, as the name implies it is the language which is used to interact with the database like MySQL.\par
\par
- MySQL is a database that store various types of data and keep it safe. A PHP script is required to store and retrieve the values inside the database.\par
\b\par
How database are managed?\par
\b0 Database is a collection of data and it is managed by a database server, which is a special program that is also known as MySQL database server. Application that you create usually communicates with the database server in the language which it can understand; mostly SQL language is used for communication. Database server in return interacts with the web server on same server or computer. Database server and web server result in the data which is being shown on the web.\par
\par
\b What is required to create MYSQL database?\b0\par
To create MySQL databse the first component which has to be present is a database server on which the queries of database will run and software tool through which you can access the applications. It also requires PHP scripts for communicating with the database using SQL commands.\par
\par
\b What do you understand by MYSQL terminal?\b0\par
MySQL terminal is used as a command line interface in many operating system. It provides a way to access the database and other resources using the SQL commands that are interpreted by the MySQL database server.\par
\par
\b Why phpMyAdmin is used for MYSQL?\b0\par
PhpMyAdmin is a very popular and easy to use GUI tool that can allow SQL commands to be run to create database, create tables, insert data and retrieve it. It provides a web based interface to the user for the ease of use. phpMyAdmin allows user to manage everything from one place and no other installation is required in the computer after this.\par
\par
\b Write a query to create a database and a table?\b0\par
MySQL comes up with some default database that can be used as a base to create a new one. The command that is used to create a new database is as follows:\par
CREATE DATABASE SQL command\par
\par
The command has to be written in MySQL terminal. This command will create a new database and then you can create new tables and include data in it.\par
\par
\b How can you make a database as your current database?\b0\par
After making a database the first thing which has to be done is to create a table inside the database to test the new database that is being created. The command which is used to do that is:\par
USE name_db;\par
\par
This command allows us to make a database which is not a current database as my current. I have to just use the USE variable and the name of the database and it will become active for use.\par
\par
What is the difference between a database and a table?(DB=Single Excel file, table=a lot of Excel sheets(Tabs))\par
1. Tables are a way to represent the division of data in a database. Whereas, database is a collection of tables and data.\par
2. Tables group the data in relation with each other and create a dataset; this dataset will be used in the database. The data which are stored in the table in any form is a part of the database, but opposite is not true.\par
Is the syntax correct? Explain the meaning of the syntax given below\par
\par
$dbc = mysqli_connect('data.aliensabductedme.com', 'owen', 'aliensrool', 'aliendatabase');\par
\par
Yes the syntax is correct and this query is getting used to connect the database with a PHP script. PHP uses three functions to communicate with MySQL database. The three functions are: \par
\par
mysqli_connect(), mysqli_query(), and mysqli_close().\par
\par
mysqli_connect() and mysqli_query() are used to connect to mysql database and issue a query to the database. mysqli_query() is also used to retrieve the string or any other data from the database. Mysqli_close() is used to close a connection with the database.\par
How to connect a PHP script with the MySQL database?\par
\par
PHP script can be connected with MySQL database by using the function called as mysqli_connect() function. You need to provide the information related to your location, username and password to the server to get permission to interact with the MySQL database server. When database name will be asked provide the name and it will connect you to the database.\par
What is the difference between truncate and delete?\par
\par
Delete command is used to delete data from a table for example Remove emails where we write a script to delete the customer\rquote s data. It deletes the rows of data from a table. The syntax of it as follows:\par
DELETE FROM table_name\par
\par
Whereas, truncate is very dangerous command and should be used carefully as it deletes every row from a table. The syntax of it as follows:\par
TRUNCATE TABLE "table_name"\par
How important is to list the column names when doing an INSERT?\par
\par
It is not important to list the column names when doing using an INSERT command as you can provide the column information and values in the table in the same order in which they appear in the table structure. It is safer and convenient way to specify the column names as it will keep the count of the column you are visiting.\par
Where\rquote s database data actually stored? Is there a way to see the files which are stored?\par
\par
Database data is usually get stored in the computer hard-disk and you can manage the data by the database program like MySQL and phpAdmin. The files can be seen but database files remain in binary format so it can be opened and read but, you have to put extra effort to understand it. SQL is given for the purpose of interacting with the database and read the database and retrieve the information out of it.\par
Why to use CHAR instead of VARCHAR in the database?\par
\par
CHAR is much more accurate and efficient to use. CHAR doesn\rquote t have to keep a count of the variable length. It is more efficient when you have to use it for a text column which is of an exact length. Char is used for the data which are fixed, but VARCHAR is used for data like password, which are variable.\par
What are ENUMs used for in MySQL?\par
\par
ENUM is used to limit the possible values and store it together. It is a function that can be created to store the similar values together. It is used in creation of table. \par
\par
The syntax of it is as follows:\par
CREATE TABLE months (month ENUM \ldblquote January\rdblquote , \ldblquote February\rdblquote , \ldblquote March\rdblquote ,\'a1\'a6);\par
INSERT months VALUES (\ldblquote April\rdblquote );\par
What is the purpose of -> in the MySQL terminal?\par
\par
-> prompt in the command of MySQL indicates that a single statement is being entered across multiple lines. From this prompt MySQL interprets that you haven\rquote t finished entering the statements. It has no impact of enter which you might press to go to the next line. MySQL will execute the statement only when you will insert the semicolon in the end which it recognizes.\par
How to find the unique values if the value in the column is repeated?\par
\par
If the values in the column of a table are repeating and a unique value has to be found then the following command can be used in the query:\par
SELECT DISTINCT user_firstname FROM users;\par
\par
There is another command which can be used to find the command to see the distinct values as:\par
SELECT COUNT (DISTINCT user_firstname) FROM users;\par
When to use ORDER BY in DELETE statement?\par
\par
The ORDER BY clause in DELETE statement is used when a deletion has to take place by in a specified order. \par
\par
The syntax is like this\par
DELETE [LOW_PRIORITY] [QUICK] [IGNORE] FROM tbl_name\par
[WHERE where_condition]\par
[ORDER BY ...]\par
[LIMIT row_count]\par
ORDER BY\par
clause is specified, the rows are deleted in the order that is specified.\par
What is the difference between Unix timestamps and MySQL timestamps?\par
\par
The unix timestamp is stored as 32 bit integer whereas, MySQL timestamps are stored in 32 bit integers but represented differently then UNIX timestamps like YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS format. Unix timestamp is given as month-day-year-HH:MM:SS..\par
\par
\par
MySQL - Explain how can you start and shutdown MySQL server\par
Start and shutdown MySQL server.\par
\par
Start MySQL Server\par
Command prompt:\par
Set the mysql directory and type:\par
/bin/mysqld_safe &\par
This will ensure that the process runs in the background.\par
\par
Shutdown MySQL Server\par
Command prompt:\par
/bin/mysqladmin -u root -p shutdown\par
This will shut down sql server completely as root user.\par
\par
Explain the tools that are available for managing MySQL Server.\par
\par
Following are the tools to manage MySQL server:\par
\par
mysqld - MySQL server daemon. It is used to start the mysql server.\par
mysqladmin \endash  Used to perform administrative tasks.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Mysqladmin shutdown \endash  Used to shut down mysql server.\par
Mysqladmin ping \endash  check the alive status of the server.\par
Mysqladmin version \endash  to check version of mysql server.\par
mysql - end users to manage user data objects.\par
mysqlcheck - check and repair tables.\par
mysqlshow - see information on tables and columns.\par
mysqldump - export data from the server to files.\par
mysqlimport -  load data files into tables program tool to load data into tables.\par
\par
Explain the purpose of "mysql" command-line interface.\par
\par
Mysql or mysql monitor is a Command line interface used to manage mysql\rquote s data objects like databases, tables etc.\par
\par
Apart from offering a wide list of command line options, mysql at a broad level is used for:-\par
\par
1. Format query output as HTML tables and XML elements\par
2. Provides access to server side help.\par
3. Allows files to be executed as a batch.\par
\par
Following are the most commonly used mysql command line options:\par
\par
-u username \endash  Specifies username while connecting to server.\par
-p password \endash  Specifies password while connecting to server.\par
-h hostname \endash  Specifies hostname when server is running. Default being local host.\par
-e command \endash  Executes the specified command.\par
\par
Explain the concept of "mysqlcheck" command-line interface.\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 Mysqlcheck is used for Admin\rquote s to check and repair the mysql tables.\par
1. "mysqlcheck databaseName tableName" - Checks the specified table in the specified database.\par
2. "mysqlcheck databaseName" - Checks all tables in the specified database.\par
3. "mysqlcheck --all-databases" - Checks all tables in all databases.\par
4. "mysqlcheck --analyze databaseName tableName" - Analyzes the specified table in the specified database.\par
5. "mysqlcheck --repair databaseName tableName" - Repairs the specified table in the specified database.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\b What is "mysqladmin"?\b0\par
\par
Mysqlcheck is used to perform administrative tasks.\par
\par
Following are the options:-\par
\par
1. "mysqladmin shutdown" - Shuts down the server.\par
\par
2. "mysqladmin ping" - Checks if the server is alive or not.\par
\par
3. "mysqladmin status" - Displays several important server status values.\par
\par
4. "mysqladmin version" - Displays version information of the server.\par
\par
5. "mysqladmin create databaseName" - Creates a new database.\par
\par
6. "mysqladmin drop databaseName" - Drops an existing database.\par
\par
Explain the purpose of "mysqldump" command-line interface.\par
\par
Mysqldump is used by administrators or end users to export data from the server to files. Here are some sample commands supported by \par
mysqldump":"mysqldump\par
\par
"databaseName tableName" - Dumps the specified table in the specified database.\par
\par
"mysqldump databaseName" - Dumps all the tables in the specified database.\par
\par
What is "mysqlshow"?\par
\par
Mysqlshow is typically used by end users to see information on tables and columns. Here are some sample commands supported by "mysqlshow":\par
\par
1. "mysqlshow" - Shows all the databases.\par
\par
2. "mysqlshow databaseName" - Shows all the tables in the specified database.\par
\par
3. "mysqlshow databaseName tableName" - Shows all the columns in the specified table.\par
\par
4. "mysqlshow--verbose" - Shows all the databases with extra information.\par
\par
5. "mysqlshow--verbose my%" - Shows all the databases who's names match the pattern "my%" with extra information.\par
\par
6. "mysqlshow--verbose mysql time%" - Shows all the tables who's names match the pattern "time%" in "mysql" database with extra information.\par
\par
Explain the concept of "mysqlimport" command-line interface.\par
\par
"mysqlimport" \endash  It is used by administrators or end users to load data files into tables program tool to load data into tables. Here is a sample commands supported by "mysqlimport":\par
\par
"mysqlimport databaseName fileName" - Imports the data from the specified file to the specified database. The data will be loaded into the table whose name matches the specified file name.\par
\par
Explain the "mysql" command Line options.\par
\par
Following are the most commonly used mysql command line options:\par
\par
1. -u username \endash  Specifies username while connecting to server.\par
2. -p password \endash  Specifies password while connecting to server.\par
3. -h hostname \endash  Specifies hostname when server is running. Default being local host.\par
4. -e command \endash  Executes the specified command.\par
5. "-H" - Specifies that the query output is displayed in HTML table format.\par
6. "-X" - Specifies that the query output is displayed in XML element format.\par
\par
Explain few command line arguments in MYSQL.\par
\par
Command line arguments can be seen typing\par
Mysql \endash help in command line.\par
\par
Following are the options:\par
\par
1. -D \endash  Specifies database to use.\par
\par
2. -h, --host=name - Connects to host.\par
\par
3. -H, --html \endash  Produce HTML output.\par
\par
4. -X, --xml \endash  Produce XML output.\par
\par
5. -t, --table \endash  Produces in table format.\par
\par
6. -w \endash wait - Waits and retry if connection is lost.\par
\par
7. --show-warnings \endash  Show warnings after every statement.\par
\par
Explain some of the non-standard SQL commands in MySQL.\par
\par
There are many non-standard SQL commands that are supported by "mysql". Here is short list of some commonly used commands:\par
\par
1. "SHOW infoName" - Shows basic information of based on the specified information name.\par
\par
2. "SHOW infoName" - Shows basic information of based on the specified information name.\par
\par
3. "SET ..." - Sets new values to server or connection session variables.\par
\par
4. "GRANT ..." - Grants access privileges to users.\par
\par
5. "REVOKE ..." - Revokes access privileges from users.\par
\par
6. "CHECK TABLE tableName" - Checks the specified table for errors.\par
\par
7. "ANALYZE TABLE tableName" - Analyzes the specified table.\par
\par
8. "REPAIR TABLE tableName" - Repairs the specified table.\par
\par
9. "BACKUP TABLE tableName" - Backs up the specified table.\par
\par
10. "RESTORE TABLE tableName" - Restores the specified table.\par
\par
11. "USE databaseName" - Uses the specified database as the current database.\par
\par
12. "HELP topicName" - Returns help information on the specified topic.\par
\par
Differentiate between BINARY and VARBINARY in MySQL.\par
\par
BINARY and VARBINARY have the same nature of differences like CHAR and VARCHAR. Even though BINARY and VARBINARY are binary byte data types, they have differences when it comes to storage. BINARY stores values in fixed lengths while VARBINARY stores in variable depending on the type of values. Values in BINARY data type are padded with 0x00 which is not the case with VARBINARY.\par
\par
Differentiate between CHAR and VARCHAR in MySQL.\par
\par
CHAR stores the data or values in fixed length format. If the size of the string is smaller than the specified length, it is padded with space characters to match with the length.\par
\par
On the other hand, VARCHAR stores data in variable length format without any padding. One or two extra bytes are added to store the length.\par
\par
Example\par
\par
we have a data type-\par
CHAR(4);\par
String abc will be stored as 4 bytes.\par
VARCHAR(4)\par
String abc will be stored in 3 bytes.\par
\par
\par
Differentiate between CHAR and NCHAR.\par
\par
CHAR is commonly referred to as character while NCHAR is referred to as NATIONAL CHARACTER. CHAR uses ASCII as its default character set. This makes one character to be stored as one byte. On the other hand, VARCHAR uses Unicode. This makes one character to be stored as one byte up to 4 bytes.\par
\par
\par
What are date and time data types supported in MySQL?\par
\par
MySQL supports the following date and time data types:\par
\par
1. DATE - A date in the range of '1000-01-01' and '9999-12-31'. Default DATE format is "YYYY-MM-DD".\par
\par
2. DATETIME - A date with the time of day in the range of '1000-01-01 00:00:00' and '9999-12-31 23:59:59'. Default DATETIME format is "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".\par
\par
3. TIMESTAMP - A timestamp. The range is '1970-01-01 00:00:00' to partway through the year 2037. Default DATETIME format is "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".\par
\par
4. TIME - A time. The range is '-838:59:59' to '838:59:59'. Default TIME format is "HH:MM:SS".\par
\par
5. YEAR - A year in 4 digits in the range of 1901 and 2155. Default YEAR format is "YYYY".\par
\par
\par
IN Conditions and LIKE Conditions in MySQL\par
\par
IN condition is used to match specified values in a query.\par
\par
Example:-\par
SELECT * FROM employee\par
where EmployeeID IN(226,211)\par
will return rows with ID 226 and 211.\par
LIKE\par
\par
LIKE clause is used for pattern matching. It is used in the WHERE clause.\par
\par
\ldblquote %\rdblquote  is used as a wild card.\par
? S% - returns strings starting with S.\par
? %S - returns strings ending with S.\par
? %sas% - returns strings with substring as sas.\par
\par
Example:\par
SELECT * FROM Employee WHERE City LIKE 's%'\par
\par
Regular expression pattern condition: REGEXP in MySQL\par
\par
REGEXP is used to match a string against a specified pattern. There are different operators used to match patterns.\par
\par
1. ^ is used to match beginning of the string.\par
2. $ is used to match end of the string.\par
3. * is used to match any character of the string.\par
4. A* Match any sequence of zero or more A characters.\par
\par
Example:\par
SELECT 'sample' REGEXP '^s.*$';\par
Returns 1.\par
\par
\par
Explain CASE Expression in MySQL with syntax.\par
\par
CASE statement is a conditional expression. It is used to execute specific statements when some search condition evaluates to TRUE.\par
\par
Syntax 1:\par
CASE WHEN condition THEN result\par
WHEN condition THEN result\par
WHEN condition THEN result\par
...\par
ELSE result\par
END\par
\par
Syntax 2:\par
When no value is matched, the statements are executed.\par
CASE value WHEN target_value THEN result\par
WHEN target_value THEN result\par
WHEN target_value THEN result\par
...\par
ELSE result\par
END\par
\par
Example:\par
CASE sample\par
WHEN NULL THEN SELECT 'This is test';\par
ELSE SELECT 'Not test';\par
END CASE;\par
\par
\par
TIMESTAMP data type in MySQL\par
\par
A TIMESTAMP data type allows you to record a date and time like DATETIME data in 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' format. It has the following properties:\par
\par
1. The current date and time is assigned to the first TIMESTAMP column in a table if not listed in an INSERT statement.\par
2. The first TIMESTAMP column in a table will be assigned with the current date and time, if it is not listed in an UPDATE statement.\par
3. If a TIMESTAMP column is assigned with NULL, the current date and time will be persisted to this column.\par
4. You can turn off the default current date and time on INSERT by defining the column with "DEFAULT 0".\par
\par
\par
What is a User Account and Predefined User Accounts in MySQL?\par
\par
A user account in MySQL is assigned a username and password to access MySQL databases. This user is also assigned some add on privileges like:\par
\par
1. Insert data\par
2. Update data\par
3. Shutdown database etc\par
4. Restrictions to max connections that can be made and so on.\par
\par
MySQL has one predefined user account \ldblquote ROOT\rdblquote . This account is created during installation without any password. Once installation finishes, a password is promoted. ROOT, by default has ALL privileges.\par
SELECT User, Password, Shutdown_priv, Create_priv\par
-> FROM user WHERE User = 'root';\par
\par
Explain how to add a new user account in MySQL.\par
\par
- New users in MySQL can be added using the CREATE USER syntax.\par
\par
You can create MySQL accounts in two ways: \par
\par
1. By using account-management statements intended for creating accounts and establishing their privileges, such as CREATE USER and GRANT. These statements cause the server to make appropriate modifications to the underlying grant tables. \par
\par
2. By manipulating the MySQL grant tables directly with statements such as INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE. \par
\par
- The CREATE USER statement creates new MySQL accounts. It enables account authentication properties to be established.\par
\par
- To use CREATE USER, you must have the global CREATE USER privilege or the INSERT privilege for the mysql database. \par
\par
- When the read_only system variable is enabled, CREATE USER additionally requires the SUPER privilege. \par
\par
- An error occurs if you try to create an account that already exists.\par
\par
CREATE USER userName IDENTIFIED BY 'passwordString';\par
\par
- The password is created in an encrypted format.\par
\par
Can you explain how to change the password for user account in MySQL?\par
\par
- Password in MySQL can be changed using SET PASSWORD command.\par
\par
- The SET PASSWORD statement assigns a password to a MySQL user account: \par
\par
1. With no FOR user clause, this statement sets the password for the current user:\par
\par
SET PASSWORD = password_option;\par
\par
- Any client who connects to the server using a non anonymous account can change the password for that account. To see which account the server authenticated you as, invoke the CURRENT_USER() function:\par
\par
SELECT CURRENT_USER();\par
\par
2. With a FOR user clause, this statement sets the password for the named account, which must exist:\par
\par
SET PASSWORD FOR 'reema'@'localhost' = password_option;\par
\par
- In this case, you must have the UPDATE privilege for the mysql database. \par
\par
- To change in a non encrypted format:\par
\par
SET PASSWORD = PASSWORD('passwordString');\par
\par
- To change in an encrypted format:\par
SET PASSWORD = 'encryptedPasswordString';\par
\par
What are user privileges in MySQL? Explain some commonly used privileges in MySQL\par
\par
Privileges in MySQL are used to restrict users accessing data objects and functions. Below are the commonly used:-\par
\par
ALL - All privileges.\par
CREATE - Allows the user to use CREATE TABLE commands.\par
ALTER - Allows the user to use ALTER TABLE commands.\par
DROP - Allows the user to use DROP TABLE commands.\par
DELETE - Allows the user to use DELETE commands.\par
INSERT - Allows the user to use INSERT commands.\par
UPDATE - Allows the user to use UPDATE commands.\par
SELECT - Allows the user to use SELECT commands.\par
SHUTDOWN - Allows the user to use "mysqladmin shutdown".\par
INDEX - Allows the user to create and drop indexes.\par
CREATE USER - Allows the user to manage user accounts.\par
CREATE VIEW - Allows the user to user "CREATE VIEW" commands.\par
USAGE - No privileges.\par
\par
What are the scope levels a user privilege can be granted in MySQL?\par
\par
Below are the scope levels:-\par
\par
1. Global Level \endash  This privilege applies to ALL databases present. Privileges granted at the global level stored in "mysql.user" table.\par
\par
2. Database Level - This privilege applies to ALL tables present. Privileges granted at the global level stored in "mysql.db" table.\par
\par
3. Table Level - This privilege applies to ALL columns present in the tables specifed. Privileges granted at the global level stored in "mysql.tables_priv" table.\par
\par
4. Column Level - This privilege applies to a specific column of the specified table. Privileges granted at the global level stored in "mysql.columns_priv" table.\par
\par
5. Routine Level - A privilege granted at this level applies to only the specified stored function procedure. Privileges granted at the global level stored in "mysql.procs_priv" table.\par
\par
\par
Explain how to view and Revoke user privileges in MySQL.\par
\par
View user privileges\par
\par
Privileges assigned to users can be viewed using the SHOW GRANTS USER_NAME command.\par
Example:\par
SHOW GRANTS for sampleuser;\par
\par
Revoke user privileges\par
\par
Privleges assigned can be revoked using REVOKE PRIVELEG_NAME\par
Example:\par
REVOKE CREATE ON *.* FROM sampleuser;\par
\par
Explain the command line options offered by "mysqld"\par
\par
Following are the command line options:-\par
\par
1. "--help" - Displays a short help message on how to use "mysqld".\par
\par
2. "--verbose --help" - Displays a long help messages on how to use "mysqld".\par
\par
3. "--console" - Specifies that the server to send error messages to launching window.\par
\par
4. "--datadir=dirName" - Specifies that server data goes to the specified director.\par
\par
5. "--init-file=fileName" - Specifies that server to execute all commands in the specified file at startup time.\par
\par
6. "--log=fileName" - Specifies that server to write query logs to the specified file.\par
\par
7. "--log-bin=fileBaseName" - Specifies that server to write binary logs to a file with the specified file base name.\par
\par
8. "--log-error=fileName" - Specifies that server to write error logs to the specified file.\par
\par
9. "--port=portNumber" - Specifies that server to listen client connections at the specified port number.\par
\par
10. "--version" - Returns the version information of the server.\par
\par
\par
What is Binary Log File in MySQL?\par
\par
- The binary log file contains information about statements that could have modified the data and how long it took to modify the data. The statements are stored as events in the file.\par
\par
- The logs are written in binary format and stored in /var/lib/mysql Directory. Binary log files are most commonly used for data recovery and replication.\par
\par
The binary log has two important purposes: \par
\par
1. For replication, the binary log on a master replication server provides a record of the data changes to be sent to slave servers. The master server sends the events contained in its binary log to its slaves, which execute those events to make the same data changes that were made on the master. \par
\par
2. Certain data recovery operations require use of the binary log. After a backup has been restored, the events in the binary log that were recorded after the backup was made are re-executed. These events bring databases up to date from the point of the backup.\par
\par
\par
Explain how to run MySQL Server on a different Port\par
\par
By default, MySQL will listen at port number 3306 for any client connections. This can be changed by starting the server with "--port=portNumber" option.\par
\par
If the MySQL server is listening on port number other than 3306, "--port=portNumber" option to any client program that needs to connect to the server.\par
\par
MySQL API offers a number of functions. Explain them\par
\par
Following are the list of functions:\par
\par
1. mysql_connect -- Open a connection to a MySQL Server\par
2. mysql_get_client_info -- Get MySQL client info\par
3. mysql_get_host_info -- Get MySQL host info\par
4. mysql_get_server_info -- Get MySQL server info\par
5. mysql_close -- Close MySQL connection\par
6. mysql_list_dbs -- List databases available on a MySQL server\par
7. mysql_fetch_object -- Fetch a result row as an object\par
8. mysql_fetch_array -- Fetch a result row as an associative array, a numeric array, or both\par
9. mysql_query -- Send a MySQL query\par
10. mysql_errno -- Returns the numerical value of the error message from previous MySQL operation\par
11. mysql_error -- Returns the text of the error message from previous MySQL operation\par
12. mysql_select_db -- Select a MySQL database\par
13. mysql_num_rows -- Returns the number of rows selected in a result set object returned from SELECT statement\par
14. mysql_affected_rows -- Returns the number of rows affected by the last INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE statement\par
15. mysql_fetch_array -- Fetch a result row as an associative array, a numeric array, or both\par
16. mysql_free_result -- Free result memory\par
17. mysql_list_tables -- List tables in a MySQL database\par
18. mysql_list_fields -- List MySQL table fields\par
\par
Explain how to close MySQL connection objects.\par
\par
- MySQL connection objects created with mysql_connect() calls can be closed by calling mysql_close($con) function.\par
\par
- This reduces the consumption of connection resources on your MySQL server. \par
\par
- The mysql_close() closes the non-persistent connection to the MySQL server that's associated with the specified link identifier. \par
\par
- If link_identifier isn't specified, the last opened link is used. \par
\par
- Open non-persistent MySQL connections and result sets are automatically destroyed when a PHP script finishes its execution. \par
\par
- So, while explicitly closing open connections and freeing result sets is optional, doing so is recommended. \par
\par
- This will immediately return resources to PHP and MySQL, which can improve performance.\par
\par
\par
}
 