{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset129 \'b8\'bc\'c0\'ba \'b0\'ed\'b5\'f1;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult1\qc\lang18\ul\f0\fs32 Nginx vs Apache questions\ulnone\fs20\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 1) What is Nginx?\b0\par
Nginx is a web server, load balancer and a reverse proxy server for HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, POP3 and IMAP protocols.\par
\b 2) Mention some special features of Nginx?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 Reverse proxy\par
L7 Load Balancer\par
Embedded Perl interpreter\par
On the fly binary upgrade\par
Useful for re-writing URLs and awesome PCRE(Perl-compatible regular expressions (original API)support\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 3) Mention what is the difference between Nginx and Apache?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 Nginx uses an asynchronous event approach to handling multiple requests whereas Apache Web Server use the synchronous. Nginx's event-driven approach can provide more predictable performance under high loads.\par
Apache Web Server handling multiple request\par
|----A-----||-----B-----------||-------C------|\par
Nginx handling multiple request\par
 |----A-----|\par
    |-----B-----------|\par
        |-------C------|\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1  Nginx \par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl240\slmult1 Nginx is an asynchronous event based web server\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}All request are handled by a single thread.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx avoids child processes idea.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx resembles speed\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx is better when it comes to memory consumption and connection\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx is better when you want loadbalancing\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}For PHP, Nginx might be preferable as it supports PHP internally\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx do not support O.S like IBMi and OpenVMS.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx comes only with core features\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nginx performance and scalability do not depend on hardware\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Advantages: open source, \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Disadvantage: limited critical features & functions vs Plus(Enterprise) version\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}advanced http and tcp load balancer, session persistence, cache control, app health check.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1  Apache\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl240\slmult1 Apache is a process based server\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Single thread handles a single request.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache is based on child processes\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache resemble power\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache is not up-to the mark when it comes to memory consumption and connection\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache will refuse new connections when traffic reaches the limit of processes\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache support\rquote s PHP, Python, Perl and other languages using plugins. It is useful when application is based on Python or Ruby\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache support much wider range of O.S\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache provides lot more functionality than Nginx\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Apache is dependent on hardware\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}components like CPU and memory\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b 4) Explain how Nginx can handle HTTP requests?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 Nginx uses the reactor pattern. The main event loop waits for the OS to signal a readiness\par
event- such that the data is accessible to read from a socket, at which instance it is read into the\par
buffer and processed. A Single thread can serve tens of thousands of simultaneous\par
connections.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 5) In Nginx how you can prevent processing requests with undefined server names?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 A server that just drops the requests can be defined as\par
Server \{\par
listen 80;\par
server_name \ldblquote  \ldblquote  ;\par
return 444;\par
\}\par
Here the server name is kept as an empty string which will match request without the \ldblquote Host\rdblquote  header field, and a special Nginx\rquote s non-standard code 444 is returned that terminates the connection.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 6) What is the advantage of using a \ldblquote reverse proxy server\rdblquote ?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 The reverse proxy server can hide the presence and characteristics of the origin server. It acts as an intermediate between internet cloud and web server. It is good for security reason especially when you are using web hosting services.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 7) Mention what is the best usage of Nginx server?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 The best usage of Nginx server is to deploy dynamic HTTP content on a network with using SCGI, WSGI application servers, FastCGI handlers for scripts. \par
Use as a load balancer to foward traffic based on load handle capacity & backup.  If any of app servers failed, it stop forwarding to prevent 404 or custom error msg in /usr/share/nginx/html.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 8) Mention what is the Master and Worker Processes in Nginx Server?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 Worker processes: It reads and evaluate configuration and maintain worker processes Master processes: It actually process the requests\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b 9) Explain how you can start Nginx through a different port other than 80?\b0\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 To start Nginx through a different port, you have to go to /etc/Nginx/sites-enabled/ and if this is the default file, then you have to open file called \ldblquote default.\rdblquote  Edit the file and put the port you want Like server \{ listen 81; \}\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 10) Explain is it possible to replace Nginx errors like 502 error with 503?\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 http error 502= Bad gateway,  \par
http error 503= Server overloaded\par
Yes, it is possible but you to ensure that fastcgi_intercept_errors is set to ON, and use the\par
error page directive.\par
Location / \{\par
fastcgi_pass 127.0.01:9001;\par
fastcgi_intercept_errors on;\par
error_page 502 =503/error_page.html;\par
#...\par
\}\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1 11) In Nginx, explain how you can keep double slashes in URLs?\par
To keep double slashes in URLs you have to use merge_slashes_off;\par
Syntax: merge_slashes [on/off]\par
Default: merge_slashes on\par
Context: http, server\par
\par
12) Explain what is ngx_http_upstream_module is used for?\par
The ngx_http_upstream_module is used to define groups of servers that can reference by the\par
fastcgi pass, proxy pass, uwsgi pass, memcached pass and scgi pass directives.\par
upstream backend \{\par
    server backend1.example.com       weight=5;\par
    server backend2.example.com:8080;\par
    server unix:/tmp/backend3;\par
    server backup1.example.com:8080   backup;\par
    server backup2.example.com:8080   backup;\par
\}\par
server \{\par
    location / \{\par
        proxy_pass {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://backend"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://backend}}}\f0\fs20 ;\par
    \}\par
\}\par
13) Explain what is C10K problem?\par
C10K problem is referred for the network socket unable to handle a large number of client\par
(10,000) at the same time.\par
14) What is the use of stub_status and sub_filter directives?\par
Stub_status directive: This directive is used to know the current status of Nginx like current active connection, total connection accepted and handled current number of read/write/wait connection\par
Sub_filter directive: It is used to search and replace the content in response, and quick fix for stale data\par
15) Explain does Nginx support compress the request to the upstream?\par
You can compress the request to the upstream by using the Nginx module gzip(CPU load go high). \par
The gunzip module is a filter that decompresses responses with \ldblquote Content Encoding: gzip\rdblquote  for clients or\par
\tab servers that do not support \ldblquote gzip\rdblquote  encoding method. \par
http \{\par
    include       /etc/nginx/mime.types;\par
    access_log  /var/log/nginx/access.log;\par
    sendfile        on;\par
    #tcp_nopush     on;\par
    #keepalive_timeout  0;\par
    keepalive_timeout   2;\par
    tcp_nodelay        on;\par
    gzip  on;\par
    gzip_disable "MSIE [1-6]\\.(?!.*SV1)";\par
    include /etc/nginx/conf.d/*.conf;\par
    include /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/*;\par
\}\par
16) Explain how you can get the current time in Nginx?\par
To get the current time in Nginx, you have to use variables from SSI module, $date_gmt and\par
$date_local.\par
Proxy_set_header THE-TIME $date_gmt;\par
17) Explain what is the purpose of \endash s with Nginx Server?\par
To run the executable file of Nginx \endash s parameter is used.\par
18) Explain how to add modules in Nginx Server?\par
Normally in Ubuntu add the Nginx repository and install the Nginx, but for an extra modules, such as Google's Pagespeed or HTTP upload module, need to recompile Nginx with those modules.\par
a. Backup any sites-available or customer configuration first!! \par
b. Download modules, get Nginx Sources & Dependencies\par
c. Recompile & Install nginx\par
During the compilation process, Nginx modules must be selected as such run-time selection of\par
modules is not supported by Nginx.\par
\par
19) What is the Master and Worker Processes in Nginx Server?\par
Master process read and evaluate configuration, and maintain worker processes.\par
Worker processes handle and process the requests.\par
\par
20) Where the Process ID does for Nginx Server? \par
The process ID of the master process is written in the file /usr/local/nginx/logs/nginx.pid\par
\par
21) What is the Best Usage of Ngins Server?\par
Nginx can deploy dynamic HTTP content on a network using FastCGI, SCGI handlers for scripts, WSGI application servers or Phusion Passenger module, and it can serve as a software load balancer.\par
\par
22) Describe Some Best Features of Nginx?\par
Simultaneous Connections with low memory, Auto Indexing, Load Balancing, Reverse Proxy with Caching, Fault Tolerance\par
23) How to define Worker Processes?\par
The number of worker processes is defined in the configuration file and may be fixed for a given configuration or automatically adjusted to the number of available CPU cores\par
24) Where the Process ID does for Nginx Server is written? \par
The process ID of the master process is written to the file /usr/local/nginx/logs/nginx.pid\par
25) What are the controls used in Nginx Server?\par
There are only few controls that are assosiated with Nginx Server and these are as below;\par
Nginx -s [stop | quit | reopen | reload]\par
25) How to reload configuration file of Nginx Server?\par
You can reload Nginx configuration file by running this command: nginx -s reload\par
26) How to reopening the log files in Nginx Server?\par
You can use nginx \endash s reopen\par
\par
27) What is the purpose of \endash s with Nginx Server?\par
-s parameter is used to run the executable file of nginx.\par
\par
28) How to add Modules in Nginx Server?\par
Nginx modules must be selected during compile, run-time selection of modules is not currently supported.\par
\par
29) Define some of Nginx Architerture?\par
Here is brief nginx's architecture in diagram;\par
\par
 \par
\par
APACHE\par
1) You see "connection reset by peer" in error log. What could be the reason for this?\par
If the end user terminates the connection when the server response was being formed or was being transferred, we see "connection reset by peer" in the error log.\par
2) While installing Apache HTTP server, do we need SSL and PHP support?\par
Yes, SSL and PHP support is required to install Apache HTTP server.\par
3) What is virtual hosting?\par
Virtual hosting is a method for hosting multiple domain names on a server using a single IP address. Virtual hosting allows one server to share its resources, such as memory and processor cycles, in order to use its resources more efficiently.\par
Name-based virtual host means that multiple names are running on each IP address.\par
IP-based virtual host means that a different IP address exists for each website served. Most configurations are named-based because it only requires one IP address.\par
4) Is there any size limit for URL rewriting and aliasing in Apache web server?\par
Apache has no fixed limit on the numbers of Aliases and Redirects which may be declared in the config files.\par
5) Create a new user file and add a user with username "test" and password "test".\par
htpasswd -c /usr/local/etc/httpd/users test\par
User will be prompted to provide the password. The -c argument tells htpasswd to create new file for users. To add more users, -c argument can be omitted.\par
6) What is the Iptables?\par
Linux kernel level firewall.\par
7) Towards the end of the install, you may get a warning message during starting of the Apache process because domain name is not configured yet. What could that be?\par
Apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for ServerName\par
8) What do you mean by a valid ServerName directive?\par
The DNS system is used to associate IP addresses with domain names. The value of ServerName is returned when the server generates a URL. If you are using a certain domain name, you must make sure that it is included in your DNS system and will be available to clients visiting your site.\par
9) What is the main difference between <Location> and <Directory> sections?\par
<Directory> sections refer to file system objects; \par
<Location> sections refer to elements in the address bar of the Web page\par
10) Can you record the MAC (hardware) address of clients that access your server?\par
No, http protocols are communicating using network (layer 3) and only see ip address.\par
11) Can you record all the cookies sent to your server by clients in Web Server logs?\par
Answer: Yes, add following lines in httpd.conf file.\par
CustomLog logs/cookies_in.log "%\{UNIQUE_ID\}e %\{Cookie\}i" CustomLog logs/cookies2_in.log "%\{UNIQUE_ID\}e %\{Cookie2\}i"\par
12) What we can do to find out how people are reaching your site?\par
 Add the following effector to your activity log format. %\{Referer\}\par
13) If you have only one IP address, but you want to host two web sites on your server. What will you do?\par
ServerName 10.111.203.25\par
NameVirtualHost *:80\par
<VirtualHost *:80>\par
ServerName web1.test.com\par
DocumentRoot /var/www/html/web1\par
</VirtualHost>\par
<VirtualHost *:80>\par
ServerName web2.test2.com\par
DocumentRoot /var/www/html/web2\par
</VirtualHost>\par
14) Can I serve content out of a directory other than the DocumentRootdirectory?\par
uses the \ldblquote Alias\rdblquote .\par
15) If you have to more than one URL map to the same directory but you don't have multiple Alias directives. What you will do?\par
The AliasMatch directive allows you to use regular expressions to match arbitrary patterns in URLs and map anything matching the pattern to the desired URL.\par
16) How you will put a limit on uploads on your web server?\par
This can be achieved by LimitRequestBody directive.\par
<Directory "/var/www/html/data_uploads">\par
LimitRequestBody 100\par
</Directory>\par
17) I want to stop people using my site by Proxy server. Is it possible?\par
Answer: <Directory proxy:http://www.test.com/myfiles>\par
Order Allow,Deny\par
Deny from all\par
Satisfy All\par
</Directory>\par
18) What is mod_evasive module?\par
 mod_evasive is a third-party module that performs one simple task, and performs it very well. It detects when your site is receiving a Denial of Service (DoS) attack, and it prevents that attack from doing as much damage. mod_evasive detects when a single client is making multiple requests in a short period of time, and denies further requests from that client. The period for which the ban is in place can be very short, because it just gets renewed the next time a request is detected from that same host.\par
19)How t to enable PHP scripts on your server?\par
Answer: If you have mod_php installed, use AddHandler to map .php and .phtml files to the PHP handler. AddHandler application/x-httpd-php .phtml .php\par
20) Which tool you have used for Apache benchmarking?\par
Answer: ab (Apache bench)\par
ab -n 1000 -c 10 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.test.com/test.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.test.com/test.html}}}\f0\fs20\par
21) Can we cache files which are viewed frequently?\par
Answer: Yes we can do it by using mod_file_cache module.\par
CacheFile /www/htdocs/index.html\par
** Using Varnish and forward port to apache is better. **\par
22. How do you check for the httpd.conf consistency and any errors in it?\par
Answer: httpd \endash t     show parsed run settings\par
\par
23) On which port Apache listens http and https both?\par
Answer : By default Apache runs on http port 80 and https port 443 (for SSL certificate). \par
netstat -plnt \par
netstat -antp | grep http\par
24) Can Apache be secured with TCP wrappers?\par
 No, It can\rquote t be secured with the TCP wrappers since it doesn\rquote t support libwrap.a library of Linux.\par
25) Can we have two Apache Web servers on a single machine?\par
Answer : Yes, we can run two different Apache servers at one time on a Linux machine, but the condition for that is they should listen on different ports and we can change the ports with Listen directive of Apache.\par
26) How to host files in different folder and what is Alias directive?\par
Answer : Yes, this can be achieved by Alias directive in the main Apache configuration file. Alias directive maps resources in File system, it takes a URL path and substitute it with a file or directory path on the system with is set up to redirect.\par
To use Alias directive, Its the part of mod_alias module of Apache. The default syntax of Alias directive is:\par
Alias     /images     /var/data/images/\par
ln -s \tab /images\tab      /var/data/images/\par
27) How to disable Directory listing when an index file is missing?\par
Answer : If, the main index file is missing in the website root directory, then the Apache will lists all the contents like files and folder of the website on the browser instead of Main website pages.\par
To stop Apache directory listing, you can set the following rule in the main configuration file globally or in .htaccess file for a particular website.\par
<Directory /var/www/html>\par
   Options -Indexes\par
</Directory>\par
28) What are different log files of Apache Web Server?\par
Access log & Error log ( \ldblquote /var/log/httpd/access_log\rdblquote  ,  "/var/log/httpd/error_log\rdblquote )\par
29) What\rquote s the difference between <Location> and <Directory>?\par
<Location> is used to set element related to the URL / address bar of the web server.\par
<Directory> refers that the location of file system object on the server\par
30) What do you understand by MPM in Apache?\par
MPM stands for Multi Processing Modules, actually Apache follows some mechanism to accept and complete web server requests.\par
varnish is better\par
31) What is the difference between Worker and Prefork MPM?\par
Answer : Both MPMs, Worker and prefork has their own mechanism to work with Apache. It totally depends on you that in which mode you want to start your Apache.\par
Basic difference between Worker and MPM(Multi Processing Modules) is in their process of spawning the child process. In the Prefork MPM, a master httpd process is started and this master process starts manages all other child processes to serve client requests. Whereas, In the worker MPM one httpd process is active, and it uses different threads to serve client requests.\par
Prefork MPM uses multiple child processes with one thread each, where worker MPM uses multiple child processes with many threads each.\par
Connection handling in the Prefork MPM, each process handles one connection at a time, whereas in the Worker mpm each thread handles one connection at a time.\par
Memory footprints Prefork MPM Large memory footprints, where Worker has smaller memory footprints.\par
32) What\rquote s the use of \ldblquote LimitRequestBody\rdblquote  and how to put limit on your uploads?\par
Answer : LimitRequestBody directive is used to put a limit on the upload size.\par
For example: I want to put limits of 100000 Bytes in the folder /var/www/html/tecmin/uploads. So, you need to add following directive in Apache configuration file.\par
<Directory "/var/www/html/tecmint/uploads">\par
LimitRequestBody 100000\par
</Directory>\par
32)  What is mod_perl and mod _php?\par
mod_perl is an Apache module which is compiled with Apache for easy integration and to increase the performance of Perl scripts.\par
mod_php is used for easy integration of PHP scripts by the web server, it embeds the PHP interpreter inside the Apache process. Its forces Apache child process to use more memory and works with Apache only but still very popular.\par
33) What\rquote s the use of mod_ssl and how SSL works with Apache?\par
Answer : Mod_ssl package is an Apache module, which allows Apache to establish its connection and transfer all the data in a secure encrypted environment. With the help of SSL certificates, all the Login details and other important secret details get transferred in an encrypted manner over the Internet, which prevents our data from Eavesdropping and IP spoofing.\par
34) How to implement SSL into Apache web server\par
Whenever an https requests comes, these three steps Apache follows:\par
Apache generates its private key and converts that private key to .CSR file (Certificate signing request).\par
Then Apache sends the .csr file to the CA (Certificate Authority).\par
CA will take the .csr file and convert it to .crt (certificate) and will send that .crt file back to Apache to secure and complete the https connection request.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 